---
title: '0.21.0 Released'
description: May 2020 Orchid News
tags: 
  - Orchid News
---

Being stuck at home may not be the most exciting, but it has given me lots of time to fix bugs and make Orchid better
for you! This latest release, 0.21.0, includes many bug fixes identified (and sometimes fixed!) by the community, and 
also boasts some significant internal changes which improve Orchid's overall performance and prepare a major portion of
its functionality to be pulled into a standalone library (which you'll absolutely want to check out when it's released).

{% snippet 'newsPostIntro' %}

## On Github

The Orchid community is growing larger all the time, and the repo is now at 367 stars! 

Orchid also received contributions from [Mikko Värri](https://github.com/vmj) for improvements to sitemaps, and 
[Javier Segovia Córdoba](https://github.com/JavierSegoviaCordoba) with documentation fixes.

And thank you to everyone else who has been giving Orchid a try, reaching out with questions and feedback, and generally
supporting this growing community! 

## What's New?

Full release notes and a migration guide are available {{ anchor('here', 'Changelog') }}. Here's a summary of what to 
expect in 0.21.0:

- Experimental sourcedocs are now enabled by default and do not need a CLI flag to use.
- Sourcedocs modules can now cross-link between each other for multi-module projects, or those with multiple interlinked
    sourcesets (like Kotlin MPP).
- Collections have become the base unit of organizing groups of pages in Orchid, and there is now a `collectionPages` 
    menu item to display pages from a collection from any plugin.
- Asset management is greatly improved, and support for downloading and inlining CSS and JS assets is now available from 
    `config.yml` as well as from plugin code.
- Diagnostic output across the board is generally improved. Pebble templates are now more descriptive about errors with
    better line-number tracking (to aid in resolving specific Pebble template issues), and `orchid-test` now only shows
    HTML selectors from the test instead of the entire rendered page.

# In Progress

Continued work is underway to support relative URLs (for viewing an Orchid site without needing a local fileserver). In
addition, Orchid's resource/file management is a core subsystem that would do well to be a separate library, and work is
in progress to move it out of Orchid and into Arcana, it's own library. This library will be Kotlin 
multiplatform-enabled, bringing Orchid's simple and flexible file-management APIs to Android, iOS, JS, and of course, 
pure JVM.

---

{% snippet 'newsPostFooter' %}
