---
---

## New Features 

- Adds new Copper theme! See a demo {{anchor('here', 'orchid-copper-theme')}}.
- Adds new orchid-docs-bundle bundle, for easier setup when using Orchid for project documentation. See a full docs 
    {{anchor('here', 'orchid-docs-bundle')}}. It includes the following plugins:
    - **Orchid Editorial**
    - **Orchid Pages**
    - **Orchid Wiki**
    - **Orchid Forms**
    - **Orchid Changelog**
    - **Orchid Search**
    - **Orchid Diagrams**
    - **Orchid Syntax Highlighter**
- Adds new Groovydoc plugin for documenting Groovy/Java source code. See full docs {{anchor('here', 'orchid-groovydoc-feature')}}

## Bug Fixes

- Improves importing and compiling of SASS/SCSS files
    - Sass (indented) syntax is now partially supported. JSass is limited in that it does not allow indented-style 
        imports, so Orchid will fully compile all indented-style imports at the import site, essentially copying the 
        compiled CSS to the import site. This means that you _can_ import indented-style Sass code, but variables, 
        functions, mixins etc. will not be imported from indented-style Sass files, and already-declared variables, 
        functions, mixins etc. will not be accessible to the file being imported.
    - Relative imports are now supported. The first file is expected to be loaded from `assets/css` as normal, but 
        subsequent relative imports will be imported relative to the existing file location.
    - Absolute imports are now supported, by prefixing an import path with `/`. These files are then located absolute to 
        your site's resources directory, rathern than the normal `assets/css` directory. Files imported from within the
        absolutely-imported file follow the _new_ directory as the context for further relative imports. 
- Fixes issue using default favicons. Now, sites that do not specify a favicon will use Orchid's default one, rather 
    than showing an empty/broken image as the favicon.
- Fixes Krow table display in Windows terminals. As windows terminals do not support many UTF-8 characters, the borders
    used for the summary table displayed poorly. Now, standard ASCII characters are used to draw the borders of the 
    results table on Windows so that it is readable.
    
## Potentially-Breaking Changes

There were no major updates to the Orchid framework in this release, but many of its dependencies have been updated to 
newer versions which might cause issues. 
