---
official: true
description: Embed Kotlin and Java documentation in your Orchid site using Dokka.
images:
  - src: https://res.cloudinary.com/orchid/image/upload/c_crop,g_north,h_1402,w_2666/c_scale,e_blur:150,w_300/v1550346159/plugins/kotlindoc.jpg
    alt: Javadoc
    caption: Photo by Federico Bottos on Unsplash
menu:
  - type: 'page'
    itemId: 'Orchid Kotlindoc'
  - type: 'pageChildren'
    itemId: 'Orchid Kotlindoc'
    asSubmenu: true
    submenuTitle: Docs
---

### Using Orchid with Dokka

The Orchid Kotlindoc plugin runs Dokka for you, using a formatter which outputs JSON. This makes it easy for Orchid to
convert data generated by Dokka into something that is easily usable from Orchid. Just include the plugin, point it to
the directories containing Kotlin or Java source files, and away you go!

This plugin works with [Dokka JSON](https://github.com/copper-leaf/dokka-json) to produce a documentation model for your
code, and then translates that model into Orchid pages in a similar way to the {{anchor('Orchid Javadoc')}} or 
{{anchor('Orchid Swiftdoc')}} plugins. 

The classes can reference pages in other Orchid sites' docs by adding their index JSON to your build. For example, you 
can add [{{site.baseUrl}}/meta/kotlindoc.index.json]({{site.baseUrl}}/meta/kotlindoc.index.json) to your site's 
`config.yml` so that your docs will link out to the Orchid doc pages. This works with class pages generated from either
the Javadoc or Kotlindoc plugins.

{% highlight 'yaml' %}
services:
  generators:
    externalIndices:
      - '{{site.baseUrl}}/meta/kotlindoc.index.json'
{% endhighlight %}

Orchid itself is written in Kotlin and documented with this Kotlindoc plugin. You can preview the generated 
documentation {{anchor('here', 'com.eden.orchid')}}.

### Dokka Configuration

This plugin delegates to Dokka to provide the documentation model. It will fetch the necessary jars and [run Dokka using
the command line](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka#using-the-command-line), and you are able to add any additional 
arguments you wish. 

First, you may specify the `--kotlindocClasspath` flag to Orchid, which will forward this value to Dokka's `-classpath`
arg. Example usage when running Orchid from Gradle looks like the following:

{% highlight 'groovy' %}
orchid {
    ...
    args = ["--kotlindocClasspath", getModuleClasspathString()]
}
{% endhighlight %}

In addition, you may specify a full list of args in your `config.yml` which will be passed-through to Dokka. 

{% highlight 'yaml' %}
kotlindoc:
  args:
    - '-classpath'
    - '...'
{% endhighlight %}