---
from: docs.plugin_index
description: Add syntax highlighting with Pygments or PrismJS.
images:
  - src: https://res.cloudinary.com/orchid/image/upload/c_scale,w_300,e_blur:150/v1524973700/plugins/syntaxhighlighter.jpg
    alt: Syntax Highlighter
    caption: Photo by William Iven on Unsplash
tags:
    - markup
---

## About

Add syntax highlighting to code snippets in your Orchid site. Supports pre-rendered highlighting with 
[Pygments](http://pygments.org/), browser-based highlighting with [PrismJS](https://prismjs.com/), and runnable Kotlin
code snippets with [Kotlin Playground](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin-playground).

## Demo

<details>
<summary>Prism.js Demo</summary>

{% filter compileAs('md') %}
```java
public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Prints "Hello, World" to the terminal window.
        System.out.println("Hello, World");
    }
}
```
{% endfilter %}
</details>

<details>
<summary>Pygments Demo</summary>
{% highlight 'java' %}
public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Prints "Hello, World" to the terminal window.
        System.out.println("Hello, World");
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
</details>

## Usage

### Pre-rendered Highlighting

The `highlight` Template Tag, which will highlight your code using Pygments. Pygments supports 
[many languages](http://pygments.org/languages/) out of the box for you with no additional configuration. Pre-rendered
highlighting has the advantage of still working in an environment with JS disabled, such as the PDFs generated by the
Wiki plugin.

```jinja
{% verbatim %}
{% highlight 'yaml' %}
title: 'Page Title'
components:
  - type: pageContent
{% endhighlight %}
{%- endverbatim %}
```

This plugin includes a default stylesheet for Pygments, which must included in your theme for highlighting to work 
properly. Simply adding `assets/css/pygments.scss` in your `extraCss` is all that's needed, to use the default styling.

```yaml
theme:
  extraCss: 
    - 'assets/css/pygments.scss' # this file is already available in the plugin's resources
```

Alternatively, you are free to use your own Pygments theme by creating and adding the necessary stylesheet.

```yaml
theme:
  extraCss: 
    - 'assets/css/custom-pygments-theme.scss' # you'll need to create this file yourself
```

### In-Browser Highlighting

Alternatively, you may opt for a browser-based solution using PrismJS. This may offer greater flexibility and works with
the normal Markdown syntax, but requires Javascript to function. You will also need to manually add language definitions
for each language you intend to highlight, which may not be feasible for sites which need many languages highlighted. 
This component is best added in an Archetype, such as `allPages`.

```yaml
allPages:
  components:
    - type: 'pageContent'
    - type: 'prism'
      languages: 
        - 'java'
        - 'kotlin'
        - 'yaml'
```

### Kotlin Playground

The Kotlin Playground allows you to convert Kotlin code snippets into playgrounds that are runnable right in your 
browser. The `kotlinPlayground` component adds the script from their CDN, which will select all elements on the page 
with your runnable Kotlin code and convert them into embedded runnable playgrounds. By default, all Markdown code 
snippets with a language of `run-kotlin` are converted.

```yaml
allPages:
  components:
    - type: 'pageContent'
    - type: 'kotlinPlayground'
      selector: "pre code[class='language-kotlin']"
```

You can configure each individual playground using the attributes described in the [Kotlin playground docs](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin-playground#customizing-editors).
These can be added from Markdown snippets with the following syntax:

    ```run-kotlin
    fun main() {
       println("Running from Kotlin Playground!")
    }
    ```
    {theme='idea' lines='true'}
