---
---

- New {{ anchor('Snippets', 'orchid-snippets-feature') }} plugin allows you to lookup and embed snippets from code, files, and 
    even external webpages!
- Improvements to Admin Panel styling. Forms and snippets located during the site build are care listed and can be 
    previewed in the admin panel.
- Allows Forms to be embedded with a new `form` tag, instead of only as Components as before. See docs 
    {{ anchor('here', 'orchid-forms-feature', pageAnchorId='form-tag') }}
- Replaces default accordion markup with details/summary tag for best usage in all themes
- Tabbed TemplateTags can now be rendered dynamically! You can now use loops and conditionals to add individual tabs to
    the body of tabbed tags. See docs {{ anchor('here', 'Templates', pageAnchorId='tabbed-tags-dynamic') }}.
- Both the base URL and your theme can now be set in `config.yml`, instead of needing to be set in your Gradle or Maven
    build scripts. See docs {{ anchor('here', 'Configuration', pageAnchorId='basic-site-config') }}.

## Breaking Changes

This release contains no breaking changes or deprecations of public, end-user features. Read on for important changes

There have been some minor changes to the internal APIs. Most notable is that the `ModularList` primary constructor no
longer accepts an injected `OrchidContext`. The context should instead be provided lazily when calling `.get()` to get
the modular items from the list. In addition, I'm working on removing the requirement of an `OrchidContext` when 
creating `OrchidReference` objects. While it's still there for now, many of its public methods, like `getServerPath()`
and `toJSON()`, and `toString()`, must be provided with a context when called instead of using the Context set in its 
constructor.

In addition, Orchid is getting more strict on places where a non-null `OrchidPage` must be provided. 
`ModularPageList.get()` requires a non-null page, and `Theme`s must have a page for each time it is pushed to the 
`ThemeService` with `theme.doWithCurrentPage()`. This also means that Generators do not globally set Themes any more, 
and it is the responsibility of the Generator to wrap `context.render` calls with `theme.doWithCurrentPage()` using its 
default `ThemeRelation`. If you do not override `startGeneration()`, this will be done automatically, but if you are 
overriding `startGeneration()` you must make sure to add this functionality.

Finally, the base URL is no longer available anytime during Orchid's lifetime. It is set at the start of each build, and
thus is only available after indexing has started and when idle between builds. Attempting to get the base URL during
Orchid startup will throw a NullPointerException.
