---
---

- Improve Asciidoc formatting. Specifically, other files relative to the source file can now be included. See caveats
    {{ anchor('here', 'OrchidAsciidoc', pageAnchorId='includes') }}.
- Automatically add `CNAME` files to GithubPages deploys, if not already present in the deployed site. The CNAME value
    will be inferred from the base URL of the site during the deploy. See docs
    {{ anchor('here', 'OrchidGithub', pageAnchorId='github-pages-publisher') }}.
- Adds `feedLinks` metaComponent to Posts plugin, which adds `<link rel='alternate'>` tags to page heads, pointing to
    the generated feed pages. See docs
    {{ anchor('here', 'OrchidPosts', pageAnchorId='rss-and-atom-feeds') }}.
- Partial support for JDK 12+. Note that changes to the Javadoc since JDK 12 make the {{anchor('OrchidJavadoc')}} plugin
    incompatible with JDK 12+. This will resolved in a future release, but for now you will have to run Orchid on a JDK
    less than 12 for it to work. 
- The dev server now dynamically renders indexed pages, instead of directly returning files from disk. This will prevent 
    pages from old builds from being rendered, makimg the dev server experience closer to what would actually be 
    rendered in production. This is still a work in progres, and if you encounter issues, you can go back to the old
    functionality by adding the `--legacyFileServer` CLI flag. 
- Copy over images uploaded and referenced from GitLab wikis
- Various bugfixes for Kotlindoc plugin

## Breaking Changes

This version includes the removal of several features that were deprecated since 0.18.0, outlined below:

- Themes will no longer add search functionality automatically through the use of the `legacySearch` option. You must
    now migrate to the `orchidSearch` or `algoliaDocsearch` meta-component config instead, as described in the
    {{ anchor('OrchidSearch') }} docs.
- Usage of `index.queryPages`, introduced as a deprecated feature for backward-compatibility in 0.18.0, has now been
    removed. You must set up custom {{ anchor('taxonomies', 'OrchidTaxonomies') }} now. 

In addition, there has been a moderate reworking of the resource APIs that are not backward-compatible. This is part of
an ongoing effort to extract this functionality into a reusable library outside of Orchid, which will eventually live
in the [copper-leaf/arcana](https://github.com/copper-leaf/arcana) repo. The rest of these release notes are only 
relevant to folks writing custom plugins, and in particular, custom `OrchidGenerators`. Custom Components, Menus, Tags, 
and Functions are unaffected by these changes. 

Below is a summary of the changes to Orchid's OrchidResource, OrchidPage, and OrchidGenerator APIs:

- Collections created by `OrchidGenerators` are now part of the model returned from `startIndexing()`, instead of being
    a discrete method on the Generator class itself.
- Generators now run in 4 discrete _stages_ instead of being ordered based on priority. This will enable future 
    improvements to performance and greater clarity of the intention behind Generator ordering. There is a 1-1 mapping 
    from older priority constants to new Generator Stages. The priority constants remain in place by name, but are now 
    instances of `OrchidGenerator.Stage` enums instead of integer priorities. The stages are as follows:
    - `Stage.WARM_UP` (previously `PRIORITY_INIT): A Stage for Generators that produce pages that Content pages depend 
        on, like registering global assets and warming up other caches which improve overall build performance.
    - `Stage.CONTENT` (previously `PRIORITY_EARLY): A Stage for Generators that produce content pages. These are pages 
        that are generally standalone pages, only having relationships to other pages from the same Generator.
    - `Stage.COLLECTION` (previously `PRIORITY_DEFAULT): A Stage for Generators that collect Content pages into groups, 
        taxonomies, etc, and optionally generate additional Content pages displaying those collections of pages.
    - `Stage.META` (previously `PRIORITY_LATE): A Stage for Generators that produce metadata about your site. These are 
        not Content pages, and are usually intended for _computers_ to read, not humans, such as sitemaps, search 
        indices, etc.
- `OrchidPages` must now be constructed with an additional `RenderService.RenderMode` constant in their constructor. 
    This constant replaces calls to `context.render*()` calls, typically done from the 
    `OrchidGenerator.startGenerating()` callback, and enables Orchid to determine how to render each page automatically
    without needing to override that method. Orchid will also render pages on-the-fly when running the dev server, which
    will eventually be able to significantly improve the development experience. The mapping of `context.render*()` 
    calls to the new constants are as follows:
    - `context.renderString()` -> Removed, as it was a development-only API. 
    - `context.renderTemplate()` -> `RenderService.RenderMode.TEMPLATE`
    - `context.renderRaw()` -> `RenderService.RenderMode.RAW`
    - `context.renderBinary()` -> `RenderService.RenderMode.BINARY`
- The APIs for creating Resources has been partially rewritten. All of these classes have been rewritten in Kotlin and
    are now null-safe in Kotlin, and the contract is expected to be followed when used from Java. These APIs will 
    continue to evolve as I continue to extract them to a separate library. The following are the main differences from 
    the old APIs to the new ones:
    - All resources are now considered "freeable", but this is much more of an implementation detail now instead of 
        something developers must think about. Resources now simply return an `InputStream` describing their contents, 
        and the framework will take care of the rest, including caching and freeing that content as appropriate.
    - The interfaces for `LocalResourceSource`, `ThemeResourceSource`, and `PluginResourceSource` are now singleton 
        _scope objects_. Internally, resource sources are now initialized with one of these markers. Instead of having
        separate `context.get*ResourceEntry()` or `get*ResourceEntries` methods, there is a single context method for
        each that accepts one of these Scope objects to filer resource sources by.
    - `AbstractTheme` no longer implements the `OrchidResourceSource` interface. Themes now return a resource source 
        instead.
    - `OrchidIntegrationTest` can now take any type of resource in its test methods, instead of only being able to 
        create String resources. In particular, the new `classpathResource()` function in the testing DSL loads a 
        resource from the classpath (especially useful for using binary resources in integration tests).
    - Resources should now be passed to `context.compile()`. This allows compilers to know the source location of a 
        resource they are processing, and can then import other resources relative to their source, such as when 
        resolving includes from Asciidoc markup.
- `OrchidCompiler.compile()` now writes to an `OutputStream` passed to it, instead of returning compiled String content. 
