---
---

> Orchid 0.17.0 contains many new and breaking changes, which are briefly outlined in these relase notes. Be sure to 
> review the [Migration Guide](#016x-to-0170-migration-guide) for a complete list of breaking changes and how to 
> address them. 

## New Features 

- New "integrations" projects
    - {{ anchor('Orchid Azure') }}
    - {{ anchor('Orchid Bitbucket') }}
    - {{ anchor('Orchid Github') }}
    - {{ anchor('Orchid Gitlab') }}
    - {{ anchor('Orchid Netlify') }}
- Wiki sections can now be imported from Github and Gitlab project wikis (see integrations above)
- Sites can now be published to Bitbucket and Gitlab (see integrations above)
- New Shared Configurations allow user-defined archetype option groups. See full documentation 
{{ anchor('here', 'Shared Configuration') }}

## Improvements and Bugfixes

- **Netlify Publisher**
    - Now handles uploads of really large sites. Previously, deploys of more than a couple thousand pages or so would 
        time out and fail.
    - It can infer the Netlify siteId from the Orchid base URL, and is now an optional property
- **Wikis**
    - PDF ebooks generated by Wiki plugin are now included in a Collection, so they can be linked to with the linking 
        functions and in menus
    - Fixed bug creating PDF ebooks for multiple sections
- **Changelogs**
    - Adds Archetype to Changelog entries from `changelog.allVersions` in `config.yml`
    - Version bumps are inferred from changelog entries, and no longer need to be manually entered
    - Improves formatting of `meta/versions.json` file. Release notes can now be embedded in this JSON file
- **Other**
    - Improves console output of Git-based publishers and Swiftdoc plugin
    - `.puml` file extension is now recognized as a PlantUML file by default
    - Fixed NPE calling a TemplateFunction as a Clog-formatted string
    - Fixes formatting of dates in sitemap XML files so as to not cause warnings from Google indices

## 0.16.x to 0.17.0 Migration Guide 

- The key for the Github Pages publisher has renamed. Change `ghPages` to `githubPages` in your `config.yml` publication
    pipeline
- The Github Pages publisher has been moved out of `OrchidCore` and into the {{ anchor('Orchid Github') }} integration
    project. Likewise, the Github Releases publisher has been moved from `OrchidChangelog` to `OrchidGithub`, and the 
    `githubProject()` global collection has been moved from `OrchidCopper` to `OrchidGithub`. Add the
    `io.github.javaeden.orchid:OrchidGithub:{{site.version}}` dependency to continue using these features
- The Netlify publisher has been moved out of `OrchidCore` and into the {{ anchor('Orchid Netlify') }} integration
    project. Add the `io.github.javaeden.orchid:OrchidNetlify:{{site.version}}` dependency to continue using the Netlify 
    publisher
- The following "spells" supported by Clog have been removed: [ `baseUrl`, `baseUrlScheme`, `baseUrlHost`, 
    `baseUrlPort`, `baseUrlRoot`, `version`, `orchidVersion`, `env` ] . Instead, use the normal TemplateFunctions within 
    Clog-formatted strings for `baseUrl`, and create TemplateFunctions for your site as a local plugin if your need the
    other Clog spells
- The `changelogVersionPicker` component has been removed, as it has not worked for quite a while. You should create 
    this component yourself using Javascript to match your theme

---