---
version: '0.9.0'
major: true
---

**This is a major release, which contains several breaking changes. Read carefully, your site might not properly 
if you do not update you site in line with these changes.**

### Notable New Features

- Tags can now be easily set up to used tabbed content. The Writer's Blocks plugin includes implementations for Tabs and
    an Accordion
- Publishing to Github Pages now has several publishing modes, which will allow you to publish without overwriting the 
    old site. This is perfect for managing library documentation, as it will allow you to keep the docs around for every
    older version of your project.
- The `data` directory has been changed to `config` to match the `config.yml` file it corresponds to. In addition, you
    can now create a `data.yml` and use datafiles in the `data` directory to host arbitrary data used in your site. The
    data in `data` is not included as options, so there is no fear of your data accidentally changing the configuration
    of your site in any way, it is just data and nothing more.
- Layouts are now much easier to set up and are more prescriptive, with no more "magic" included you need to know. 
    Anything that should be included in your layouts is automatically documented in your admin panel's TemplateTags.

### All Changes 

- Makes TemplateTags and TemplateFunctions page-aware
- Changes Parsers to return a Map rather than a JSONObject
- Updates Pebble to 3.0.0 release version. Adds 'serialize' method to Parsers so we can write objects back into that representation if needed
- Caches compiled page content in the Page, frees the page directly instead of just its resource
- Adds accordion tabbed tag. Displays tabs in the order they are parsed
- Updates dependency versions
- Adds Tabs tabbed tag to WritersBlocks plugin
- Changes API of TemplateTags to support tags with inner tabs
- Adds multiple publishing modes for GithubPages publisher, adds bean validation to all Publishers
- Changes signature of TemplateFunctions so that filtered input is just set as an Option
- Makes all options extraction use Maps and Lists instead of JSONObjects and JSONArrays
- Sets up Hibernate Validator for validating classes with Options
- Implements scripts, styles, head, and page tags to remove the 'magic' includes previously used.
- Fixes issue in docs where bundles landing pages were not linking to their plugin pages
- Updates to Pebble 3.0, adds custom AttributeResolver to call a 'get' method with the String attribute, which allows for accessing front matter of pages and also for JSONObjects
- Renames 'dropdown' menu item to 'submenu'
- Changes name of `data` directory to `config`, changes `templates` parameter in OrchidPage, OrchidComponent, and FormField to `template`

### Breaking Changes for End-users

- Changes name of `data` directory to `config`
- changes `templates` parameter in OrchidPage, OrchidComponent, and FormField to `template` (it still accepts either a 
    String or an array of strings)
- Renames `dropdown` menu item to `submenu`
- Many classes and methods have been changed in a non-backwards-compatible way. Updating should be pretty 
    straightforward, but you may need to view the changes in the commit history to know exactly what to change.
- Updates to Pebble 3.0.0. Old templates will still work as they did previously, but there is some new functionality 
    available, and some behavior might be different than it was. View the 
    [Pebble changelog](https://github.com/PebbleTemplates/pebble/releases/tag/v3.0.0) to know more.
